Okay.
Well, I'm here to talk today about
the AppleShare Client in
Mac OS X and the AFP 3.0 Protocol.
I want to go over what we've
done with AFP 3.0 in Mac OS X,
talk about the AFP client
implementation and then go over the
User Authentication Module SDK that
allows you to write plugin
authentication for AppleShare on X.
I'd like to start with a bit of overview
of the history and the goals of AFP 3.0,
what we've got that's new,
and go over what we've
actually accomplished here.
AFP 3.0 is similar to HFS+ in
the same way that AFP 2.2 and the
earlier versions were similar to HFS,
so some of the same
limitations and things.
So we did AFP 3.0 in order to provide
support for HFS+, provide longer names,
improve the Unix-like
feel of the whole thing,
and give you support for
greater than 2GB files,
long file names,
and to improve our localization,
our multilingual stuff.
AFP 3.0 is just like all
the other AFP versions is a
superset of the previous ones.
We did have to remove ProDOS support.
We've added long Unicode names
up to 255 Unicode characters,
64-bit file sizes that's somewhere
way up in the terabytes instead of
this 2-gig limit we've got today.
We've added Unix permissions.
We've added some optimizations to
the protocol for long attentions to
support directory services much like
Kerberos realms and things like that,
directory service nodes from
the DIRS services folks.
Support for automatically reconnecting
if a connection gets broken and we now
do things in GMT rather than in seconds
since the-- Seconds since the Epic.
Let's see.
The basic new data type that
we've added is an AFP name.
It's in the Git folder,
Parms calls and things.
It's a new path type.
So it's a one-byte path type,
four bytes of an encoding hint which
enables the finder and Carbon to display
the file name or what have you correctly.
And two bytes of length and then
up to 765 bytes of UTF-8 data.
The things that we've
not finished in Mac OS X,
at least in the first release,
is that we do not have reconnect support,
we do not have long attention support,
and we haven't completely hooked
up with directory services to get
our full directory service support.
The AFP version string that we're
advertising for AFP 3.0 is AFP X03.
It'll be a Stump the
Experts question next year,
so be ready.
This is the list of the
calls that we've added.
We've got the
The first three there,
the byte range lock, read and write,
are all things added to handle the
larger file sizes since we've got signed
offsets and things like that in there.
So we had to create
some new calls for that.
The get auth methods and
the login extended are to
support directory services.
It allows you to
query a directory node for the
authorization types that it supports.
The login extended allows you to specify
the directory node you're logging into.
It also allows you to use UTF-8 usernames
and longer usernames for that matter.
GetSessionToken and DisconnectOldSession
are used by the Reconnect code.
When the AppleShare
client logs in initially,
if you're going to be
supporting Reconnect and
have set an appropriate bit,
they'll ask for a session token,
which is a way to uniquely identify
that specific session from the server.
And then if that connection
breaks and the AppleShare client
wishes to attempt to reconnect,
it will re-authenticate
and then it will send the
FPDISCONNECTOLDSESSION request and
is handing that token that it got back
from the FPGIT session token call.
And that will tell the server
to release all of the locks,
all of the files and things
that were held by the old
session that is no longer there.
That allows, hopefully,
for the client to seamlessly
rebuild the resources and things
that were used by the old session
that had gotten disconnected.
We've changed a few calls,
pretty much adding new
bitmaps and things like that.
Server info call,
we've added flag bits to say it
supports ReConnect and supports
the DIRS services stuff.
We've added directory
names listed in there.
Get server parms,
we're using UTF-8 volume names,
but they still have
the single byte length.
So what you get is just
an encoding change.
Map ID and Map Name map between
user IDs and UTF-8 names now as
well as just standard Pascal names.
Map Name is the same thing the other way.
Gitfile.derp arms also has,
it's not on the list here,
but it's got some bitmap changes as
well to support longer file sizes.
Leand Wallace: Going on to the AppleShare
client in Mac OS X.
The basic goal of the project was to
provide the same functionalities the
Mac OS 9 client and to capitalize
on what I promised last year
to have minimal changes in the
APIs that you would program to it.
We've done pretty good.
The experience of mounting a volume
in Mac OS X is a little bit different.
You've got a lot more
ways to mount volumes.
From the finder through
the go-to server thing,
you can use the classic chooser.
[Transcript missing]
Access files and stuff.
And we've added a lot of
international support using the
Mac OS X internationalization tools.
In terms of what you see as a developer,
the AppleShare client fits into
many layers in the 10 world.
and we have three APIs that
we're working with at the moment.
As you can see we've got some
things which live and can be called
from Carbon as the finder there.
There's a high level
AppleShare Client framework.
There's a core framework that
gets called by command line tools,
the auto mouter and things like that.
Then there's some things in kernel space,
a plug-in file system
and a socket interface.
The user authentication methods sort
of straddle the Carbon non-Carbon line
because they have a Carbon portion
which can put up HI and a non-Carbon
portion for those times when
you're not allowed to put up HI.
shared volume enumerator API which
was used by Nav Services in the
network browser on Mac OS 9 has
got some more calls that allow
you to do more things in a more
in a more Unix-y fashion, I suppose.
The CreateSharedVolumeEnumeratorFromAdd
ress takes the struct sock
adder to do things rather
than a server name in a zone.
MountSharedVolumeOnMP mounts a
volume on a specified mount point
and the change password call
is one that we added in here.
All these things need Carbon because
they can put up HI if need be.
The other API that's currently
available is AFP URLs.
And you've seen them if you've
looked at ConnectTo sometimes.
And they're very similar to FTP URLs.
These URLs will allow you to add
username and password to things.
And in the example here,
I've got a username of Leland,
password of foo, at a specific server and
a specific volume name.
You can also specify an AppleTalk one,
although that's not
very useful right now.
Leand Wallace: So, I'm going to go ahead
and start the session.
I'm going to go ahead
You can specify user authentication
method names in there by
inserting the auth equals
[Transcript missing]
The API is pretty simple.
A way to create one.
You hand it the fields
and it'll spit out a URL.
A way to get rid of one.
A way to tell if the string
that you're passing it is a UAM.
A way to parse out the various
bits and pieces and a way to mount
that URL on a specific mount point.
Other API,
which we will have as a beta SDK, well,
it's supposed to be up
on the website today,
but it looks like it'll be next week,
is the user authentication module API.
We've got a few changes from Mac OS 9,
but not many.
It's packaged as bundles,
still has the same entry
point as the old Mac OS 9,
same callbacks,
and I'll go over what you need to
do to port a UAM from Mac OS 9 and
show you an example of doing a port.
The UAMs on Mac OS X are
bundles of type UAMX.
They live in library file systems,
Apple Share authentication.
They're loaded with the
standard CFBundle calls.
There's nothing really
special about them.
They're not CF plug-ins.
I didn't need something that heavyweight.
And it contains sub-bundles,
one of which is the high-level one,
one of which is the low-level one.
We need the low-level bundle,
the non-carbon bundle,
because these things can be
loaded without a user context,
such as by automounter at boot
time or other things like that,
places where you can't go
to the Windows server and
put up human interface.
The biggest API level changes
are your HANA destruct SOC adder
instead of an OT address.
We've added a few fields to
pass to the UAM the UTF-8
username and the directory names.
Session reference number is
now a long instead of a short.
And we're not using the async
callbacks because you can do
multi-threaded access to this stuff.
[Transcript missing]
is a bundle and you can have
inside of it a high level
bundle and a low level bundle.
Those things are pointed
to by the Info.plist.
Most of the things in the Info.plist are
from the UAMG resource on Mac OS 9.
We've got keys for the protocol name,
the maximum password length,
and a dictionary which tells the
AppleShare client where the high
level and low level sub-bundles
are with an identifier and a path.
And it also gives you the
name of the entry point,
so you can change that if you want.
There's also a localized string in there
which is the user visible name that will
appear in the HI sometime in the future.
The entry point is the same entry
point as we had on Mac OS 9.
It takes a UAMR structure.
It's very much a
parameter block interface.
The selectors are just
the same as Mac OS 9.
The open when the UAM is loaded,
the login when you requested to login,
the close and then selectors for
optionally putting up dialogs for
the password for the volume selection
for changing passwords and the
[Transcript missing]
Callbacks are the same as in Mac OS 9.
Callback to get additional
information about the client.
Callback to open the session,
to send the request to close the session.
All of these things allow you to write
a UAM that has no idea what network
it's going to because all of that's
abstracted out in the callbacks.
In order to port a Mac OS 9 UAM,
all you have to do is compile
your main code and resources
into the high level bundle,
set up the entry points
in the outer bundle,
set up the Info.plist in
the outer bundle,
and then basically install it.
Further information about this stuff
can be found up on the website.
There's stuff in the developer.apple.com,
you know,
the Mac OS networking page there.
It's got information on
DIR services and on AFP 3.0 and
on the AppleShare Client APIs.
Bit SDK ought to be up
sometime next week and if not,
give me an email.
[Transcript missing]
Both of the other sessions that might
be interesting have already occurred,
so you'll have to catch them in DVD.
and further stuff can be
directed towards Tom Weir.